---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0 - Ubuntu keeps rebooting?"
date:   2021-09-17 15:55:28 -0700
categories: ubuntu blog
---
<H1>How to fix Ubuntu system when it keeps rebooting?</H1>
<i>Imagine your Ubuntu system keeps rebooting itself before you even get a chance to get to your home screen. 
Sounds frustrating, doesn't it? Fortunately, there are a number of steps you can take that will most likely solve 
this issue and keep your personal settings and files intact.</i><br>
Steps:
1. Check if you can boot from CD or USB drive (you may need to change the boot order in BIOS in order to do that). If you are unable to do that, there may be a hardware problem with your computer.
2. If you are able to boot from a CD or a USB drive but not from your computer, check if you can access GRUB boot loader
(press Shift key on booting to see list of OS). If you can’t see it, GRUB may have been overwritten. In order to repair it, you need Ubuntu installation disk that will give you an option to reinstall GRUB on existing Ubuntu installation.
3. If overwritten GRUB is not the case, use recovery mode (keep pressing Shift key to access it). Pick “Advanced”, then
 “recovery mode”, then pick a tool for automatic repair of broken software packages, fix file system errors etc. You can
also access root shell prompt to fix problem by hand. Make sure that you know what you are doing before making changes as root.
4. You may have recently made some changes that affected the whole system and caused problems. If there is a problem iwith your
Ubuntu system configuration, you can fix it by reinstalling Ubuntu from live media. Boot to the live media and start
installing Ubuntu. Ubuntu should find your existing installation and give you a “Reinstall Ubuntu” option. When you 
perform a reinstall, the installer will keep all your personal files and settings. It will even keep your installed 
software packages, if possible. The Reinstall option will wipe away all your system-wide settings and return them to 
their defaults, but that should fix problems that misconfigured system settings could cause.

